Hey, Connections Church, hopefully you are doing well.
Pastor Mark Carr here for week two of this series in the Psalms.
If you're new to Connections Special, welcome to you.
Glad you are here.
Make sure you connect with one of our pastors.
And we're doing this four week series in the Psalms.
We're just kind of grabbing four different Psalms, four different songs in the book of Psalms.
And it's kind of poetry and it talks about real life and God and what it means to follow God in the real world that we find ourselves.
And in this Psalm, I mean, it's an incredible Psalm, very famous.
It's a great one for anxiety.
So we live in a, you know, Jonathan Haidt just wrote a book on anxiety called the anxious generation.
Of course, we live in one of the most
anxiety-driven generations, those of you who experience real life know how hard it is to go through life and be anxious about everything.
We borrow trouble.
We take trouble from tomorrow and we bring it into our life.
We dream up all these mythologies and we live in the most anxious generation or have that one is rising right now.
The generation of my kids who grew up on social media, who grew up on phones and Jonathan Hyde and a whole bunch of different academics and scientists and scholars and psychologists are talking about how it's affecting
brain that the way dopamine is hitting the bridge, rewiring, reshaping the brain toward anxiety, which is not good.
So I love this psalm because it brings us to this place of dealing with it in such an interesting way, dealing with real life, not just anxiety, a whole bunch of stuff, but that being one of them.
And one writer, Hebrew scholar, Old Testament scholar, he said this, this psalm, psalmate, if you've got a Bible, you can open up.
is an unsurpassed example of what a hymn should be, celebrating as it does the glory and grace of God, rehearsing who He is, and what He's done, and relating us and our world to Him, all with a masterly economy of words and in a spirit of mingled joy,
and awe.
And so this is, I was talking to a friend the other day and they said out of all the Psalms, this is the one that he's memorized, right?
This is the one he's kind of put to.
So it's almost like, one scholar has called this Psalm a little Bible in and of itself.
It's almost like it hits who we are, like the identity of human beings, what we're here to do.
And you ever kind of woke up and ask that question, what am I here on planet Earth to do?
It can't be just that you're gonna go to work tomorrow and you're gonna make some money and go home and try to get a mortgage and get a little house and have a couple of kids and get a car and hopefully get a promotion and get some friends and then die and that's done.
That can't be what your purpose in life is.
No wonder you're anxious and bored.
No wonder you're trying to stimulate your life
other ways, this song goes no no.
you are made and crafted by God for something that is so much bigger than yourself.
And so it starts out this way, chapter eight verse one, Lord our Lord, how majestic is your name and all the earth.
I love that he calls him Lord, because one of the great questions of your life is who is your Lord?
Is money, sex, power, reputation, beauty, all of these things can be your Lord.
They're the things that you try to take your identity from.
And if you lose them, you freak out, right?
Some of you, it's building a great family.
Some of you, it's a relationship, it's a husband, it's a wife, it's a spouse,
whatever, and one of the great challenges of life is that you don't make anything else your Lord but God, because when you do, if you lose that thing, the book of Jonah has this very interesting thing where his God is kind of the nation of Israel.
And the enemies of Israel are going to repent and come to know God and he hates it.
And he's just, I just want to die right now.
And Tim Keller years ago, I talk about him often if you were here last week as well.
But he talks about the idea that if you want to know what your idol is, if you want to know the thing in your life that you're making your Lord, ask yourself the question, if you lost it, you'd want life to end.
You just couldn't see yourself living.
Some of you, it's like a spouse.
It's like you so worship them that, and Tim Keller says, be very careful with that, because one day one of you is gonna have to bury the other one.
And what you don't wanna be burying is your functional savior.
You don't wanna be burying the thing that gives you joy, the thing that gives you life and meaning and identity and purpose.
It can't be that, it has to be God who transcends all of that.
And so he's like, right off the bat, let's be very sure in your heart
that God is actually the Lord of your life versus money and power and all these different things.
And he said, how majestic is your name in all the earth?
You have set your glory in the heavens.
And so this is what's great.
It starts with God.
So if you're taking notes,
Here's one of the great realities of life.
You've got to start life with God, purpose-driven life, one of the most well-known books ever written, Rick Warren wrote.
It's sold more books than anything outside the Bible and Shakespeare, I think, the purpose-driven life.
The whole book starts with these words.
It's not about you.
It's not about you, right?
And that's a beautiful thing because there's nothing more freeing in the world.
this summer, you know, I'm a pastor and I love academics and I got into the pastoral world to lead and shepherd and teach the Bible.
And this summer our church did something called Breakaway.
They do it every summer and it's these kids camps where we like do a whole bunch of literally thousands of kids, 5,000 kids come on our campus and we do teaching the Bible and we play games or whatever.
And this year my wife's like, hey, they're lacking leaders.
So I want you to be in our group and we're going to lead a group together.
And so for five full days, I was a leader again of these like
eight, nine-year-old kids.
All right, so I'm just in the weeds of their life again.
I'm like, oh my gosh.
And it is really hard, because I was like, I want to talk to these kids about the soteriological, eschatological, sociological, political, and they're like, man, give me ice cream.
And it's like, man, I can't make this about me.
This isn't about me.
It's about God.
It's about them.
It's about serving other people, even though I don't want to be doing this.
I got to do this for five hours every single day for five days straight because life isn't about me.
It's about a posture of trying to make it about others.
And this week, because I'll come back to you later, or during the week of Breakaway when I was there, there was three people that we do.
that ended up in the hospital.
So the week that here we are spending all this time hanging out with kids, three different people that we know end up in the hospital.
Well, we're down there in the hospital, ministering to them, hanging out with them, spending time with them.
And it's like, man, God is trying to teach us something that we need to come to the end of ourself.
And so you realize that all you have when you go to visit people in the hospital, when you do these things with kids, when you come to the end of yourself, you're not in your zone,
you realize that, man, I can't make this about my name.
Your name is all I want to be glorified in all the earth.
That's what he's saying.
Because guys, our names are fragile.
Our lives are fragile.
You can't build a life on you being
the person because even even the week I was, this week I was kind of hanging out with my kids and I was, we were with a bunch of little kids and my kids are older now but we were with the little kids and they had one of those little rubber slidey things and I got up on the slider and I'm like, and I went down it but it was too dry.
It was like, my body like, and I got up and I'm like, oh my gosh.
I am too old for this, right?
I'm so fragile.
I'm almost gone, guys.
I'm getting old, and you can't make life about you so much so that
the humility to realize you're fragile, you're vulnerable.
Tomorrow is not promised.
So don't make life about your name echoing out into the world because that's the most fragile name of all.
You are bound to fail, you're bound to sin, you're bound to flounder.
And so you gotta have something, I've had people literally walk up to me and go, Mark, can you sign my Bible?
And I'll just be like, ah, I'm like, I don't wanna be, dude, I'm gonna sign your Bible, be struck by lightning.
This ain't about my name.
This is about his name being the center of your entire life.
And that's what is
beautiful as he's saying we have to be careful and I love this because again the Psalms are songs and so what he's trying to do is just trying to get your heart to latch on to something that transcends your everyday life of the comings and going to any and he puts it in a song he goes maybe sometimes
Songs are the thing that can, you know, the book of James actually says, let anyone among you who's in trouble, let them pray.
Is anyone happy?
Let them sing songs of praise.
Is anyone among you sick?
Let them call the elders.
He's going, man, songs.
Like sometimes we don't even ask the question when you come into church, if you were asked the question, why are we singing?
right now, what are we doing here?
Why do we spend the first 20 minutes of this service singing?
And what other context of life do you just go side by side where the bunch of people go, raspberries, ossibos, right?
Hopefully that's a good answer.
It's like, what are we doing?
Is this just killing time before the sermon?
No.
God literally goes, it can heal you.
The songs that well up in you are powerful.
My daughters recently had to go down to the hospital
During that week, one of the people that they went to visit was one of their friends who was, his name's Carson, he was riding an e-bike and the front wheel of the e-bike fell off and he went face first into a rock.
He got airlifted out to the hospital and they said he might not make it.
Brain bleed, everything in his jaw, the whole thing.
So they went down to the hospital.
But here's the funny thing guys.
As they were driving down to the hospital to go visit their friend, crying and weeping, what were they listening to?
Listen, this is very important for your life.
This is what the Psalms are trying to do, guys.
What were they listening to?
Listen, my girls are the biggest Taylor Swift fans in the world, but they were not listening to shake it off on their way down to that hospital.
They had worship music on because the music of God is the thing, it's the bomb.
that heals the soul.
It's the bomb that comes in and meets you in your anxiety and your pain.
That's why these things are.
He's singing this stuff.
It's a worship music is the thing that can center you that I'm singing about Christ.
I'm singing about God.
I'm singing not just about my circumstances.
It wasn't all the modern things that they have.
There was something deeper going on in that moment.
And he says, of course he says, I love this.
He says, Lord, our Lord.
It's communal.
It's a plural, the word our Lord.
It's plural.
It's not just about the fact that it's you.
It's about the fact that you're part of a church and the church connects this church.
If that's your local church, there's power in that.
God constantly lays out life.
If you're trying to live a life where you're just an individual,
you're gonna get into trouble because you're gonna get isolated.
What Satan wants to do is isolate you from the people around.
They're sitting beside you right now.
I know you have shame and guilt and sin that are secrets in your life.
You don't want, you wanna isolate so you don't show up to church or you show up to church once a month or twice a month.
God wants to draw you in because his thing has always been a people's thing.
It's always been the thing where you are called to something bigger than yourself that if you don't agree with everything that's happening, it doesn't mean you retract.
You lean in because God might be trying to teach you something.
It's a communal thing.
It's a beautiful thing because you have something to bring to the table as well.
A guy, I was in a meeting this week and he looked, he said, there's a great phrase.
He said, I wrote it down.
He said, you can fake love.
You can fake interest.
You can fake a lot of things, but you can't fake showing up.
Isn't that wonderful?
You can't fake showing up in ministry and serving and I'm sure your church, your church needs you to serve, connects us needs you to give, connects us needs you to be on point.
And here's the thing.
Jesus Christ says, I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
Not I will build Mark and the gates of hell will not prevail against him.
No, the gates of hell would prevail against me outside of the community called the church.
You can't live the Christian life on your own.
You need connects us.
You need the leaders.
You need the people around you.
And I, listen, I did young adult ministry for years and I would have these parents come up to me, all right?
And they would say,
Hey man, my child, my kid went to all the student ministry at church, and then they went off to college for a year, and they were in college for a year, and they walked away from Christ, and what's the deal?
You're the young adult pastor.
Why can't you do anything about it?
What's wrong with you?
Do you do something wrong?
And I would look at them and ask them a few questions.
I'd say, let me ask you a minute.
So we had youth group every Wednesday.
Do your kids go to youth group on Wednesday?
They'd say, well, no, we had soccer on Wednesdays.
Okay.
So what about Friday nights?
We would do events every Friday.
Well, no Friday.
That's, that's when they were riding the horses.
Okay.
They had some horse riding Friday.
So what about Sunday when they would come together and say, well, no, well Sunday promise Sunday is they had hockey Sunday.
And then I'm like, okay.
So, so hold on a second.
We had church three times a week.
You never engaged or brought your kids to church.
You, in that moment, you know what happened?
And I read this from a, I heard this from a preacher one time and he said this to his congregation.
I thought it was very powerful.
He said, in that moment, you know what happens?
Your kid walked away from Jesus, not because of me.
That's collateral damage for your sin, because you taught that kid that kicking around a ball was more important than the God of the universe.
Now, how did you teach them that?
by prioritizing certain things, the individual life over the communal life, the fact that we're gonna take you out of church, we're gonna take you out of the community life, and here's the thing, God constantly lays out a conviction, a vision for our life that's way beyond ourself.
And then he says, how majestic is your name in all the earth?
How majestic is your name in all the earth?
I love this, your name.
Sometimes, if you're not a Christian, all right?
If you're a connection and you're just exploring Christianity, we're glad you're here.
I came into the church when I was like 19 or 20.
So whenever I see people say things, I'm like, can you explain that?
And we'd sing all these songs where it's like, your name is great, your name in power, your name.
And I'm just like, your name.
I don't know, I say, what do you mean his name?
His name is Jesus.
What does that, what do you mean, his name?
What if it's Dave, Dave of Powerlesson?
And what you understand the back then in the Hebrew language, your name,
It was, it was representative.
Like, like my kids, my kids names, like back then your name meant something.
My kid, I named my kid.
I remember, I remember at the church we were going to when I had my first kid, my daughter's name is Sienna, and we had her in 2006.
and we're at a church and we got up there and it was like child dedication day and I didn't know this but everyone's name that they named their kid was being put up on the big screen like to be celebrated and they're like here's Sarah this means warrior of God here's Jacob this means you know Israel whatever and I'm like oh I wonder what there and they went and looked up these now I didn't know anything about it and they're like and here's Sienna reddish brown
And I'm like, wow, all right, I'm literally standing on stage, all dressed up to the nines, holding this baby, dedicating it to the Lord like Mufasa, like, yay, holding up Simba and reddish brown.
I'm like, wow.
This is, my other daughter, my last daughter is named after a story about whether a girl's gonna pick a vampire, a wolf, all right, to be with for the rest of her life.
So anyways, young Bella, anything, we don't, you gotta get the power of the name.
but name to them, the name was the character.
The name was the person of God himself, your name versus my name, your character, your presence, everything you are, the symbol of every, all your power and all your righteousness and all your holiness and all your perfection and all your everywhere and all of it is getting captured.
And that is the thing that's going out to all the earth, he says, to all the earth.
You're carrying the name, by the way, of God when you call yourself a Christian.
This is a great question.
I remember hearing the story of Alexander the Great heard that there was a coward in his army whose name was Alexander.
Then he sat him down and he said, let me tell you something.
You either repent of your cowardness or repent of the name of Alexander, because you carrying that name reflects on me.
I don't remember being in high school.
I got suspended one day by doing something stupid.
And I remember getting home and my mom looked at me and she said, I'm just so embarrassed for myself.
I'm like embarrassed for you.
You didn't do anything.
She's like, yeah, yeah, but you got my name.
You carry your whole life as a reflection of me.
And that's when we carry the name of Jesus out into the world.
We carry the name of God into the world.
And so verse two, he says, through the praise of children and infants, you have established a stronghold against your enemies to silence the foe and the avenger.
I love this.
hanging out with kids in the summer that week.
This really does text it out to be children, infants, through them.
I remember, I was hanging out with one of the kids.
He's literally like eight years old and he looks at me.
He's like, when were you born?
And I'm like, I was born in 1980.
And he's like, oh, that's the olden days.
And he runs away.
I'm like, what are you talking about, kid, the olden days?
Just hanging out with kids.
I remember we were giving these ice cream sandwiches out.
and there was an ice cream sandwich, literally here in the States, I don't know if they have these up in Canada, here in the States they have these ice cream sandwiches called fat boys, okay, that's what they're called, and I don't know how that got through the marketing people, but anyways, fat boys, and so this kid's eaten one one day and he looks at me and he goes, you know, up until a couple years ago, I didn't know what these were filled with because my grandmother, who had a whole box of them in the house, told me that these fat boys were filled with alcohol,
And it wasn't until last year that I realized she'd been lying to me my whole life.
There was boo.
There were no booze in the fat boys.
All right, which would be very answering to be handing those out to the kids during our summer camp.
He's like my grandmother.
She lied to me.
She told me there's booze in the ice cream.
I'm just like kids say the craziest stuff.
Kids
infants say the craziest things.
And so, but here's the thing, the Bible constantly brings us back and goes, I know what you think they say is stupid, but let me tell you something.
What did he just say here?
Through those kids, the enemy gets destroyed.
Listen, do you know that down in the kid's wing of Kinexis church right now, no matter which campus you're watching this out, or do you understand that back in the kid's section,
Where all those little kids are back there learning about whatever eating fishy crackers, whatever you got there back there doing, you know what's back down there?
Potentially the next Billy Graham.
You just don't know it yet because they're only two, three feet tall.
The next great leader, the next great evangelist, the next great church planter, the next whatever is back there waiting.
for you to pour into them, waiting for them to become, and literally what he says is these kids, they fight.
There's something about the beautiful young soul of all of us.
Forget just little kids.
Do you understand the beauty of relating to God as a child?
Your identity to him, I was reading this week in Ephesians chapter five,
Paul says, you're loved children.
It's like your identity, stop trying to just be like a self-made man or woman or before you're a pastor or a CEO or a this or a that, you're a child.
And a child's gotta learn, he's gotta think, there was this book years ago called Everything I Learned in Life, I think it was called I Learned in Kindergarten.
And basically, it's by a psychologist who says, if you walk into a little, listen, if you walk into a little, like a kindergarten class,
Okay?
And you walk away and you say, hey, let me ask you a question.
How many of you are writers in this room?
Like how many of you write stories, novels?
Every hand will go up.
Like, of course I'm a writer.
I wrote about frogs or whatever, right?
It's adventure.
All right, how many of you can sing?
How many of you are singers?
What's this guy asking us stupid questions for?
Every hand goes up, we're all singers.
Listen to me.
Right?
And he says, you do all that.
And then you fast forward and you walk into a college age sophomore class and you walk in and you say, how many of you are writers?
No one will raise their hand.
They'll be like, well, I don't know, this is the economics department.
I think the writers are down there.
How many of you can sing, right?
So the kids, what do you mean can sing?
Of course I can sing.
How many of you can sing raise up your hand in a college classroom?
Nobody raised up their hand.
I don't think, I don't think.
And the great question of when I read the kind of things in the Bible, like infants and child bringing glory to God, I go, man, when did all that get beat out of us?
Life beats up on us where we lose that whimsical wonder and awe of being a child and going, yeah, I can sing.
Yeah, I can write.
stories that can change the world and then life beats up on us and lets us forget.
And that's why he's saying, no, no, no, it's the child, that wonder that is a stronghold against the enemy, against evil itself.
This is a spiritual war that we're in the middle of.
And the innocence and beauty and wonder and a faith of a child is the thing that wins that war.
So during Breakaway, during that week when we had to go visit a friend's in the hospital, the kid who fell in the e-bikes named Carson, his brain was expanding and bleeding and it wasn't good and they literally said we're gonna potentially lose him.
So we flew home our daughter from Newport to be there and she took her, she knew him very well and she took her guitar and she went down and they let her up into his room.
They weren't letting anybody up there.
And she sat and she sang to him for like two straight hours.
She just sang him worship songs.
And, uh, and this, this is, they basically said, we don't know if Carson's going to live.
And after she'd been there for two days, this is the picture of Carson with my daughter after two days of her being there singing songs to him because she had the,
I mean, it's a beautiful picture of healing and he's doing okay now.
They're saying he's going to be fine.
And it's like the beautiful healing of a child's faith to go, I know how to heal the world.
I know how to have a stronghold against the enemy, the enemy of Satan and sin and death and shame.
And this comes from a, from a kid's, some of you, you're grown up too much.
You need to wake up to the all again and go, this is the God I serve.
This is what he does.
And then he says, listen, when I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is mankind that you're mindful of them?
Human beings that you care for them.
I love this God made everything.
He made the universe.
He made all these beautiful things and he's saying, in light of everything you've made, all the stars, all the planets, it's so beautiful, it's so expansive.
Out of all of that,
Who are we that you care about us?
This is one of the most important things you can ever learn because some of us look at the expanse of the universe and we deduce the wrong thing from it.
I used to do that.
I used to look at the universe and I used to study science and all the, like listen, let me give you a picture of what we're talking about, okay?
I'm gonna give you a couple.
If you put your finger up in the sky,
within the area of the fingertip of your finger.
Listen, there's 50,000 galaxies.
There's 100 million stars in each galaxy.
Now, picture that for a second.
So the observable universe that we know about is approximately 93 billion light years in diameter.
That means that the distance from Earth to the edge of what we can see
is about 46 billion light years in any direction.
So let me give you a quick analogy of this.
If you traveled the speed of light, okay?
Speed of light is 671 million miles per hour, okay?
Here to the moon in two seconds, okay?
If you could travel the speed of here to the moon in two seconds, that fast, it would still take you four years to reach the nearest star.
from earth, four years traveling that fast, it would take you a hundred thousand years to cross just our galaxy.
And there's a hundred billion galaxies in the known universe.
It would two million light years it would take to reach the nearest galaxy, two million light years.
And all this was created by God.
If you read the Genesis story, he says, and he made the stars also.
He made all of that.
Listen to me, he holds up all of that and you're stressed about your life.
He made all of the, he's keeping those systems going, billions and billions of stars and the Psalm writers, like you do all of that and yet you're mindful of me.
You care about, you care about me, you care about my
Stuff?
How is that possible?
Listen, we're not a generation that does what he's able to do in this psalm because we don't see the stars very much.
We live in cities and we don't see all the, I mean, you guys live in a little bit more of a scenario where you can see the stars, but when's the last time you just sat down and looked at them?
Because I think, I know this sounds wacky, I think that sitting humbly under the stars
could heal some of your anxiety in life because you begin to take it all in and you begin to realize, man, God is so vast.
Like listen to this.
Okay.
On February 14, 1990, the Nassau Voyager one spacecraft went in, it was in space and it was about 3.7 billion miles from the earth beyond the orbit of Neptune and it turned its camera back.
And I want to put on the screen the picture of the picture it took.
Okay.
This is called the pale blue dot.
It's one of the most famous pictures ever taken.
And that pale, tiny little light that you see is earth taken from 3.7 billion miles from earth.
And Carl Sagan, the writer said this, look again at that dot.
I want you to look at that dot.
That's us.
That's here.
That's home.
Every king, every peasant, every young couple in love, every superstar, every super leader, supreme leader, every saint and sinner in the history of our species lived there on a moat of dust.
See, I think what happens is we go, oh, I'm small.
I'm in the scope of the galaxies, therefore I'm insignificant.
And this writer is going, no, no, guys, it's the opposite.
It's that, wow, this universe is huge and yet God made me.
This universe is so vast and yet God cares about me.
He answers my prayers.
Think about a prayer that he answered in your life.
He made all of that and he's still bothered to answer your prayers.
It's a beautiful, so we don't have to be in control of the universe.
We don't have to be stressed.
We don't have to be frustrated.
We don't have to wonder why and how and how.
This is why Jesus looks at his disciples and he goes, once you start, think about when Jesus is on the water and he's going and then he says, I control the wind and the waves.
So why are you what?
Afraid.
Why do you lack faith?
Don't you know?
I want you to sit in the grass and stop.
for a second and stare up and let it wash over you.
I'm serious, super practically.
When is the last?
So one of the writers and poets that I love the most is a guy, Wendell Berry, and he wrote this poem called The Piece of Wild Things.
And I just love it.
It's just picture yourself sitting down for a second.
Just listen to what he says.
He goes, when despair grows in me and I wake in the night at the least sound in fear of what my life and my children's lives may be, I go and lie down where the wood drake rests in the beauty on the water and the great heron feeds.
I come into the peace of wild things.
who do not tax their lives with forethought of grief.
I come into the presence of still water, and I feel above me the day blind stars, waiting for their light, for a time I rest in the grace of the world, and am free."
That's what this writer is doing in the Psalms.
He's going, man, when my life gets out of whack,
When my marriage is out, some of your marriages are out of wax, some of your money is a disaster, some of you work and you're trying and you think, let me jump on phone and let me try to solve it and solve it and solve it and solve it.
And God's going, don't you understand what the solution is?
It's not to do, it's to stop, it's to be.
Hurry, one writer has said, hurry is not of the devil, hurry is the devil.
You think you can accomplish all this?
Look up.
Be in awe of the majesty of the one you serve.
Your heart will start to find peace.
And he says in verse five, you have made them meaning humankind a little lower than the angels and crown them with glory and honor.
You made them rulers over the works of your hands and you put everything under their feet.
Here's what I love.
Are you ready for this?
You made human beings.
So you did all that, but you made human beings.
Now here's a phrase that stuck out to me when I was looking at this.
You made us a little lower than the angels.
So the good thing is, here's the thing.
If you're wondering about what it is to be a human being, you're not an animal, as Darwinism would say, you're not an animal, okay?
but meaning you're just instinct and physical, but you're also not an angel because an angel is just a spirit without a body.
So you're not a body without a spirit and you're not a spirit without a body.
You are an embodied
soul, okay?
You're a soul that has a body.
You're an eternal thing that's made in the image of God, by the way.
Made in the image of God, no matter, that's why racism is dead.
That's why any racist is gonna be uncomfortable in heaven, right?
Because in heaven, every tribe, tongue nation is worshiping the lamb who was slain.
And so, human beings with the dignity are made in the image of God.
But here's a great thing.
He says, we're a little lower than the angels.
You know what I love about this?
It's humbling for us.
because check this.
Listen, I know everybody looks at us and says, you're so special, you're so special.
You're the Bible says, you're lower than God.
Okay, so now you're number two.
Wait, now this text said we're a little lower than the angels.
Okay, so now we got angels above us.
So now we're in third place and we're getting the bronze medal here in life.
But then Philippians two says you're supposed to consider others better than yourselves.
You know what that means?
That means you're coming fourth place, bro.
That means you're not even getting a participation badge anymore.
You are in fourth place when it comes to when you wake up in the morning, who are you fighting for?
We are lower than God.
We are lower than the angels.
We're supposed to have our mindset where we're lower than the people around you.
And yet it says he crowned us with glory and honor.
Guys, we are kings.
We are queens.
My daughters, they look at me and they go, the way we talk to each other around the house, we're like, hey, king, hey, queen.
All right, that's how we talk, all right.
Hey, queen.
And I didn't realize I was just being so theologically right.
Yes, you're not an animal.
Yes, you're fourth, but guess what?
You're crowned.
You're not nothing.
You're so special to the purpose and the moment that you've been given.
Paul says in the book of Acts that God has appointed you to live in the city you live in and the town you live in for such a time as this, to have an influence and carry your job and your purpose and your meaning, not as anyone else sitting around you, comparison destroys your contentment.
You are crowned, you are a king, you are a queen, you are way more than the world makes you feel.
And John Lennox, who's this great scientist and a Christian writer, he says this,
He's a teacher at Oxford.
He says, both Genesis and science say that the universe is geared to supporting human life.
But Genesis says more.
It says that you as a human being bear the image of God.
The starry heavens show the glory of God.
Yes, but they are not made in God's image.
You are.
That makes you unique.
It gives you incalculable value.
The galaxies are unimaginably large compared with you.
However, you know that they exist, but they don't know that you exist.
You are more significant than a galaxy in that beautiful.
You are more significant than a galaxy.
And that's the way we got to treat each other and pull out the glory out of these kings and queens around you.
You've never met C.S.
Lewis says you've never met an ordinary person.
everyone you've ever met in your life will live forever.
And they are possible gods and goddesses or disasters that will live eternity apart from Christ.
So when my wife and I were doing that breakaway week together, I remember these kids, I'm like an 80s dad, right?
So a kid would act up and I'd be like, if you act up again, you're gonna get a timeout.
And I'd be greedy, all right, right, right.
I'm like, there's a consequence and you're gonna do this.
And you're gonna be like, yeah, I'm being so great.
And I'd say, stop acting out.
And then I watched my wife look down at one of the kids one day, this guy who's creating all kinds of problems.
And I was just like, you said again, you're out.
And she just got down on his level and she looked at him and he says, listen, you're a good little man.
You're a good, you're a good guy.
I see your heart.
And I know that you want to live up to that.
And so why don't we, why don't we rein it in a little bit?
And why don't you live up to the potential that you have in life?
And this kid was like, yeah, I'm the man, right?
See that my wife understood.
So I was like, get out of here, you stupid kid.
My wife goes, no, no.
You're a little king, right?
The crowning, you're a little queen.
I wanna pull out of you all of your wonderful, beautiful potential.
This is what I want from you.
And then the whole thing ends as it says, man, God, you've given us as human beings dominion over the works of your hands and you put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, the beast, the fields, the birds, the heavens, the fish, the sea, whatever passes along the path of the earth.
And what he's trying to say is you have responsibility right now in this world
to do something amazing.
This is the beautiful part about being a human being.
You've been given a task.
The task is more than your job.
It's more than just raising a family.
It is those things.
It's beautifully those things.
And you're going to be held, but it's to live for the glory of God.
And I'll just end this way.
The book of Hebrews goes on to take a passage like this and say, you know who this passage really was all about?
Of course, this whole idea of human beings are in the center of running the universe, all the sheep and oxen.
They're all under them.
God had this concept that a human being would be in the center of running the universe.
And this ultimately took place in the person of the work of Jesus Christ, the one who is God who became the ultimate human being for you and died on a cross for your sin and rose again for your salvation.
So you could ultimately reign in heaven as kings and queens in a sense.
This is what Jesus Christ has done.
And some of you may be wrestling with that.
Like, I don't know if I've become a Christian.
And this is an opportunity to go, I want to do that.
I want to become a Christian today.
I want to give my life to Jesus today.
And others of you are just going to be in awe of the role that God has for you, the majestic awe of what He's done and what He's called you to do.
So Father, I pray.
that you would give us your grace in this, that we would be an absolute awe of the beautiful world you've created, but how it trickles down, as this writer says, to something about us, the way we live our life, not in anxiety and fear and trying to earn everything, but arresting in you and what you've done, the fact that you made all that and you care for us above it all.
and the task that we have before our lives to walk out of these doors and live for your glory and the good of this world is just something that will wake us up in the morning and give us purpose and steel in our spine and let us trust in you, Jesus.
Those here, maybe we've never given their lives to you, Jesus, that they would accept your gift of salvation for them and their heart and they would live for you, Jesus.
The true human being who came and showed us what it means to be human and we could follow that in all things.
for your glory in Jesus' great name we pray.
Amen.